The Joe Rogan experience.
Well, I'm happy you're back,
but I'm not happy that it was a motivation to bring you back based on the
violence, you know, the violence that is going on between, uh,
the cartels and it was the Mormons. And then it was,
we were just talking about this, uh,
other person that got shot because they ran. What would you explain that again?
They were ran a cartel roadblock.
Yeah. Basically in Tama, Lipa is a lot of the cartel groups actually make, uh,
uh, they build their roadblocks in the, on the, uh, state and local roads.
And according to what I've heard from some of the people that I know there, uh,
this family, uh, ran one of those roadblocks.
They didn't know if it was cops or not.
And they apparently decided to run the roadblock and the cartel guys shot.
Hmm. What should someone do they encounter a cartel roadblock?
Uh, slow down. Um, I mean, if, if, uh,
if anything, I would probably avoid traveling through those areas.
That's the number one wins. Um, usually, you know,
and I've actually gone through some of those myself really. Yeah. And it's, uh,
it's all about, they're all, they're all,
they're looking out for the four rivals moving through their territory.
They're looking for government personnel, maybe spying on them. And, uh,
usually it usually they'll just shake you down for some money and they'll let
you go on your way, unless you have a four by four truck that can use for their,
you know, their own purposes, which is.
Where they might take your truck.
Yeah. Uh, uh, specifically in Tama,
Lipa is a four by four trucks ever commodity for them.
They use them for their ongoing tour for.
Oh, right. Especially someone else's that they don't mind getting shot up.
Yeah. I mean, most of the trucks that you see that are arm up armor,
or they have the rifles on top are usually stolen vehicles. Um,
all of them are stolen vehicles and a lot of them are, you know,
Americans crossing into Mexico.
Some of them are Americans crossing into Mexico and just getting the trucks
stolen.
Is that that's a real common thing.
It's, it's, it's, it's starting to be pretty common. Um, uh,
I recently saw a case of an, of an apparent abduction, uh, in, uh, in,
in Tamaulipas. Um,
you see the video in the cartel guys come out of the car,
they grabbed the, the, the, the owner of a, of a pickup truck.
They'd get them out of the car. They take a cell phone,
leave it on the sidewalk because they are,
they're aware of all the SOS technology and they take them inside and inside of
another car and they take the truck. And you thought you would think, you know,
it's because he did something or he's, he's involved in something the,
let him go a few blocks later and just took the truck.
It was all about the truck. Wow. Yeah. It's the resources, you know,
they're just acquiring resources for their, for the war, basically.
Nice of them to let them go.
Nice of them to let them go. You know, it's not always the case.
It's not always the case, but it's pretty. Yeah.
I think most people in America are just now waking up to the chaos
that's going on down there. I think that, uh,
the Mormon assassination was a real wake up call, but I think, uh,
people are paying much attention now. I mean, we've, we talked about this.
When was the last time you were on, it was like five months. Yeah.
I've got a lot of the stuff we talked about those five months ago. Uh,
kind of that's how things progressed.
We actually did mention the Mormon communities down there,
which was kind of eerie. Yeah. And, uh, uh,
we talked about the possible designation of cartels as terrorists, uh, uh,
terror groups.
Yeah. You, you had an interesting take on that. So, uh,
Trump was saying that they were going to designate them as terrorist groups and
that they were gonna have military action against them. Yeah.
And then there was some sort of negotiation with the president of Mexico.
What do, what do you think went down?
So, I mean, this is just, you know,
from what I see and from how things traditionally happen down there,
Mexico is currently, uh, has a current, currently a, a leftist president.
Now there he's very, to the left, uh, so much to the left that he, um,
he recently gave Evo Morales, the deposed leftist, uh,
president of, uh, uh, Bolivia, uh, asylum in the country. Um,
and there's been a lot of, you know,
pro left political stuff going on in Mexico, basically.
Um,
as soon as the designation threat by the U S came down,
there was some sort of negotiation. And a lot of things happened after,
after some us officials went down there and talked to the government among them,
Evo Morales is out he's, uh, he went to Cuba apparently,
and then went to Argentina. So he's not going to stay in Mexico, uh,
former head of, uh, of, uh,
public security under the Calderon administration,
which is two administrations past the president.
Calderon is the one that started the drug war. He was, uh,
arrested for cartel involvement. And, uh,
basically we're seeing money from the cartels. Um,
he was going through his immigration process and he was actually asking for full
citizenship and they got him online through the authority,
the immigration authorities.
And he said that he never received money from the cartels.
And apparently he did a lot of it. Right. So all these things happened after,
after they walked back the threat of, uh, of, uh,
designating cartels as a terrorist organization.
So there has been some action.
So they must've made some negotiation where trumpet said, listen,
we're going to do this. And he'd say, hold up, let's talk.
Yeah. I mean, the main thing is, uh, Mo uh,
one of the things that this current president, uh,
undressed Manuel Lopez over a ran on was, uh, creating a national police force,
right? Like, uh, national guard as is what he calls it,
which had already kind of been done before, but, you know, change the name,
change the uniform, changed the packaging, and it's a new thing, right. Uh,
he wanted, he wanted the army out of the drug war because the casualties, uh,
were mounting on both sides. And he said, it wasn't a military. Uh,
it shouldn't be a military operation. And he ran on a platform that was called
[inaudible], which means hugs, not bullets. Right. So basically he's crossed
amnesty for the cartels was basically kind of the main theme of that. Um,
so you got into power. The first thing he did militarized police forces and
create a national guard and dissolve and try to dissolve the federal police.
Uh, and most of that, uh, national guard, uh, force was, uh,
designated to border patrol duties on the Mexican side.
So some of them went to the south of the border, um, uh,
south Southern Mexican border.
And some of them went through the Northern Mexican border basically to stem the
whole illegal, uh, immigration crisis with the caravans.
That's what kind of happened.
And it was a kind of a collaboration between the U S and the Mexican government.
Um, so that was one of the key points of collaboration that they had.
And when this whole designation thing went up,
that was kind of like a bargaining chip that the Mexican government had with the
U S and the rest of the things that kind of transpired afterwards. You know,
it's pretty interesting how a lot of things happened after that,
a meeting down there, uh, and how they walked back the, uh,
the terrorist designation. So the terrace.
The terrorist designation would mean that Trump would have some sort of
incentive to invade Mexico.
It would, it would,
it would open up the possibility for military direct military action against
strikes strikes without permission of the,
of the nation that these strikes were going to take place.
Also targeting finances, uh,
or anything related to cartel activities would be targeted. We have,
where did the cartels keep their cash? Well, um, it's, it's,
it's a it's right now. It's a myriad of things. Um, they diversified long ago,
so it's not like they're keeping, uh, buried cash in a, in a,
in a contained container, somewhere in the, in the jungle,
like Escobar you to do. Right, right. They're still finding some,
some like rotted cash from the eighties. Um, they're,
they're putting their money in cryptocurrency. Uh, yeah,
they're diversifying their, uh, their, their, uh,
investments in actual companies like legit companies with a clean,
their money that way, um, real estate hotels,
uh, property on the U S side.
So they're also investing on the us side of the border as well. So, you know,
monies it's, it's not, you know, it's not under the mattress or, you know,
giant stacks of cash in the room. So what kind.
Of banks do business with the cartels? How do they.
Negotiate that I'm not going to say names,
but there's been a few cases of pretty large banks that have been involved in,
in, in, uh, money-laundering for the cartels recently.
And people can look that up easily,
but you would think you would have a designated cartel.
You would have cartels designated as terrorists.
So now they're banks involved in funding, terrorism.
So that would change things. That's, you know,
there's a lot of things that would happen. You know, some,
some of these consequential people talk about designating them as a terrorist
and central and down there,
things that they kind of talk about is that if a terrorist designation does
happen,
most people seeking asylum in the U S from Mexico now have the claim of, uh,
of running from terrorists in, in Mexico.
So now they can claim that as far as, uh, uh, you know,
asylum seeking people can claim that. Now it's a different thing. Um,
you know, the,
the main argument that a lot of people say is that cartels aren't, uh,
can't be considered a terrorist,
a terrorist group because they don't have political aspirations.
The problem with that theory is that we have a lot of political killings by
cartels in Mexico,
where they shoot the candidate of one side of the political spectrum,
because it's not good for them. So they influence politics.
They also pay off a lot of politicians down there. Um, and they also, uh,
examples of the new generation cartel from Guadalajara giving out, uh,
Christmas gifts or groceries to the poor,
basically doing hearts and minds type tactics in the area are clear political
movements, right. So, you know, how does it,
why is terrorism happening connected to politics? Well, that's,
that seems classical. The classical definition of that is a terrorist group.
That's what they're basing it on.
I think the cartels and narcoterrorism is a thing in and of itself.
It's a new phenomenon.
It should be terrorism should be reclassified to include it. I think, you know,
most people that live through that type of situation in that type of, in,
in that type of area in the country facing some of these cartel threats that
have flooded, we'll call it what it is. Yeah. It's terrorism, terrorism.
They're terrified. Yeah. I mean, that's literally, I mean,
who's more terrifying in the cartels, so.